# About

Public Goods Network (PGN) is a low-cost Layer 2 (L2) built on top of Ethereum
for supporting public goods. It is built on the [OP
Stack](https://stack.optimism.io/), in collaboration with Optimism (like
Coinbase's Base).

**What does that mean?**

For users, it means low transaction costs, with the security of Ethereum. For
application developers, it means the security, stability, and scalability of an
L2. And for public goods maxis, it means secure and regular funding for public
goods without any additional financial commitment required. Simply run and
interact with dApps on PGN.

**Why an L2?**

Public goods funding is not abundant and bountiful. So organizations who believe
in the importance of public goods have to find novel ways to fund them. After
years of raising and deploying capital based on community sentiment (i.e.
Quadratic Funding), Gitcoin recognizes the need to grow the pie from which we
can all fund public goods.

**How does it work?**

PGN will be a network where the vast majority of net sequencer fees go to
projects that are funding and supporting public goods in the Ethereum ecosystem
and beyond. PGN is a rollup run and operated by Gitcoin (and a 3rd party vendor)
that offers discretion in how the sequencer fees are allocated. The vast
majority of net sequencer fees will go to the alliance, using a newly defined
governance model. We will use PGN as a digital schelling point for those who
want to support public goods – this is not for Gitcoin, this is those who want
to establish sustainable, legitimate and deep revenue sources for public goods.

Filling blockspace is, in part, a race to the bottom. The bottom of the stack is
where value capture is the most persistent and accepted. Rather than fill
blockspace for other organizations who may be captured by VCs, or other rent
seeking motivations, we believe we should fill our own blockspace such that we
can reallocate those funds to further the Alliance’s objective of growing and
funding public goods.
